In 1969 held the Tower Festival in Breda from joy at the end of the restoration period of the Great Tower, which lasted 25 years. All this time the NAC, but not only they, against a tower looked to its beauty behind a network of scaffolding hid.
Also between 1995 and 1997 the beauty of the Great and Our Lady's Church was held temporarily hidden behind scaffolding. In nearly three years, the church was again restored inside.
The restoration was divided into three phases. In the first phase were under other operations as spray-cleaning the exterior, repairing the joints and the stained-glass windows and painting the inside center. In the second phase, the heating was applied; In the third phase the rest of the church was restored.
Research has firmly established that in 1410 the construction of the church began. In the sixteenth century the church on the south side and the north side enhanced with several chapels, the current vestry and pastern intercourse. The tower was finished in 1509; In 1468 was therefore laid the first stone, so construction period has lasted all together anyway forty years. The spire burned down in 1694. In the years after it was rebuilt, including with wood donated by Governor King William the third of its forests. In 1702 the rooster could be put back on. It is clear that the Lords of Breda, especially the Nassau ?? fs, have made a significant contribution to the genesis of the Great Church. These Lords of Breda also buried there; Their tombs are true art-historical gems. Prince William of Orange, who was murdered in 1584 in Delft, had the Great Church under the splendid tomb of Count Engelbert War reserved a final resting place, but his remains and those of the after him coming Orange princes were now in Delft to earth ordered.

---

At the corner of Torenstraat and the Lange Brugstraat is still a seventeenth century stepped gable dating from around 1600 and the sign gives the old name ?? ft schaekbort (before 1727 ?? ËThe Checker ?? f) of this property to. Please you look at the beautiful wall anchors.