Opening hours:
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Saturday 12.00-16.00

Entrance: free

At the corner of the Halstraat / St Janstraat we face the building with the
pillars: the garrison command. Previously, the building "guardroom"
mentioned. Before it withdrew guardhouse there was in this place the St.
John's Chapel with a little more behind the buildings of the Knights of St John
The members of this order cared for here sick and poor.
The street name recalls the Knights of St John in the chapel began
great fire of 1534.

The St. Janstraat once also called the Lace Street, likely to
huydvetters the Tanners, that their profession in the St. Janstraat
exercised.
On your right in the St. Janstraat state Anthony of Padua Church, a
performed remarkably rich waterstaat church. This church was built in 1836 as
first Catholic church after the hidden church period, which officially built
could be. In 1853 it became the first bishop's church (cathedral) of the
new diocese in Breda. The seat of the Bishop of Breda returned after a
absence of 32 years at the beginning of 2001 back to Anthony's Church
which thus again achieved the status of cathedral. On the façade are
clearly see the three types of antique columns. From the bottom to the top:
Doric, Ionic and Corinthian columns. The picture presents above the entrance
'Religion' for. Within immediately notice the beautiful wooden pulpit
on. This is depicted in different panels of Antonius H. life.
A little further there are remnants or just memories of two
very prominent primary mansions, the House Ocrum, where until 1994 the Academy
St. Joost was located and the House Hersbeeck, now parsonage. In 1667
stayed in both houses of the British envoys, who participated in the
Peace negotiations of Breda. The deputies of the State Council
used the premises (no. 16) when they were on duty in the city,
but King Louis Napoleon has stayed there. The bay window of this building
had a controlling function: the pastor could keep an eye on who is
went to church.
The House Ocrum (no. 18) was from 1848 to 1952 Roman orphanage. That can
you still see the cobbled the 19th century facade of the
academy building were made. The red color of this house (after the
restoration applied) will, over the years a beautiful gray red
color of the house (made after the restoration) will of course by the
years get a nice gray color red.